---
layout: default
title: Year 2017
date: 2018-01-02
---

What has happened and what have I done in the year 2017.
The post covers only work related staff, nothing about personal life.

Last year:
- We released Zendesk integration project
- I have became a Scrum master
- I have started blogging again
- I read books
  - Thinking, fast and slow
  - The subtle art of not giving a fuck
  - Wuthering heights
  - Number of books on the human personalities and relations
- Learned a bit of bash, vim, kotlin and haskell
- Decided to start own programming project
- Started learning Dutch
- Started to train in the gym
- Gave two talks inside the organization and liked it.

### Zendesk integration
The core function of our organization is dealing with customer needs, 
so the ticketing system is essential.

Before the year 2017 we had a home grown ticketing system from 
late 90-s. It was connected to every process and tool inside the 
company. The work of integrating the new system was very challenging, 
but also very satisfying.

### Scrum Master
I have started working in Scrum teams the first year I became a developer.
It was in JNetX, 8 years ago. 

Much later, when I came to Otixo, I have tried to introduce Scrum process in there
but didn't succeded.

Here, after previous Scrum Master decided to leave the company I volonteered to take the role.

I did the training and I liked it. Passed the certification.

I am still on the very first steps of this way, a lot to do still, a lot to learn.

### Blogging
You are reading this only because I came back to blogging.
Partly inspired by the Nullprogram blog, partly driven with the urge to create.
Also, I am practicing English here and at some point I will practice Dutch.

This blogging thing brought me to the questions I always worried about but never answered.

I am trying to answer this questions now.

### Reading
I read a lot, especialy this year. About relationships, about human nature and flows.

### Learning
I learned vim to the point I feel uncomfortable without vim like controls.
Also I have fixed one bug in the IntelliJ IDEA vim plugin, and I hope that it will be merged to the main brunch soon.

I tryed to write bash scripts, and I found it useful. I dislike the conditional clauses in bash a lot though.

This year I have tryed Kotlin - the very practical language. It is ok, and when you have to do a lot of work it can help.
The projects I have now I will write in Kotlin, just to understand it fully.

As the matter of learning some ways of the functional programming I started learning Haskell. It is fun.

### Programming projects
I decided to write my own blogging software, the things we have now is nice but I would like to make nicer one.

Also, the own shopping list project is started - I have managed to create a list of features I need most and I know how to get them.

### Dutch 
I just started, I like it, I need to learn more because I want to stay here.

### Sports
With cycling to work almost every day I got nice fitness, but I found it is not enough.
Also, I like to think while I am running. To do it safely, I started going to the gym.

### Talks
I spoke about performance testing and I gave a talk about our work on Zendesk project and I liked both.

It went well, so I will try to speak more. We have a small conference in our department every two weeks, it is a good opportunity to 
polish skills and move forward.

### Plans
Soon I will create a post about plans for the next month - I think that planning for a year is way to long. 
Of course I have draft plan for a year, but monthly plans are much more useful.
